Robert Freeman
"Y'all need to start appreciating your Grandaddy! I went and spent your inheritance on this beautiful house in this neighborhood! 
And all I ask you to do is act like you got some class... "
The best way to describe Robert is that he is old yet unwise. He never accepts responsibility for his actions, nor does he learn any lessons.
Robert has been shown to be extremely prideful, impatient and intolerant. 
He believes in strict discipline, quick to go for his belt when the boys step out of line. 
As he says "I hate to see a child go unbeaten." He isn't exactly the best parental figure or influence. 
He is perfectly fine with sneaking into movies without paying. A dream sequence revealed that he is cowardly 
and quick to abandon friends and family to save himself. Robert describes himself as a "Civil Rights Legend.", 
though this title is often questioned by others throughout the series. When describing his experiences during 
those times he shamelessly includes himself alongside several important figures during that period. Quite frankly 
he earned more animosity from Black people then he did the Whites. He also says he's related to Jackie Robinson. 
According to him, the Freeman is silent.

Huey Freeman
"Maybe there are forces in this universe we don't understand. But I still believe we make our own miracles."

Huey is a highly intelligent 10-year-old boy, who rarely smiles or laughs, and recognizes and detests the absurdities 
(both obvious and perceived) of the society in which he lives. His cynicism often touches upon subjects such as politics, religion, 
the media, businesses and corporations, African-American culture, and American society as a whole. Tending to be obstinate 
in both manner and speech, Huey has demonstrated a depth of understanding that would seem to surpass his young age, such as 
knowing roughly what is going to happen in the future based on the actions and personalities of the people involved. 
For example, in "The Fundraiser," Huey accurately predicts what will become of Riley's candy-selling racket, going so far 
as to give him a bulletproof vest that eventually saves his life. Huey has an amazing fighting style seen through his fights 
with Riley and other characters throughout the series. Huey is the strongest out of the group due to both his combat abilities and intellect.


Riley Freeman
"You wanna be in this business, you got to pay the cost of doing business, and when the cost gets too high, you get out of business."

Riley is a highly impressionable third grader. He embraces the stereotypical "gangsta" lifestyle, doing his best to promote the urban 
culture in the contrasting suburb of Woodcrest. Influenced by the mass media via rap music and television, he frequently uses poor grammar, 
and tends to defend his idols even when his imitations go against common sense and righteousness. One example is his support of R. Kelly in 
"The Trial of R. Kelly", despite overwhelming evidence proving Kelly's guilt, Riley believes he should not have to miss out on his next album 
because of Kelly going to jail. This is further shown in "The Story of Gangstalicious Part 2" where he dresses in effeminate clothing only because 
Gangstalicious created the style. He also refused to believe that the rapper was gay despite the obvious clues to the contrary. In an effort to further 
emulate the lifestyle he praises, he collects airsoft weapons and tags houses, as demonstrated in "The Garden Party" and "Riley Wuz Here".

Uncle Ruckus
“A white doctor is 99.9% reliable. Black doctor is an oxymoron, unless it’s a witch doctor.”

Uncle Ruckus (no relation) is repellent in appearance, behavior, and attitude. He has an intense hatred of anything pertaining to black people, 
and goes out of his way to free himself from this identity. Ruckus claims God says the path to forgiveness for being black is to rebuke your 
own race. Ruckus champions the small traces of Native American, French, or Irish ancestry he claims to have (all of which are completely non existent), 
and wishes that all black people were still enslaved. He spouts white supremacist rhetoric and calls Michael Jackson (who suffered from the pigmentation disorder vitiligo) a 
"lucky bastard", as he no longer looks black. Uncle Ruckus claims that he is a Caucasian man who has revitiligo, to explain his own skin tone. In 1957, age about 18, 
he served on a jury in Tennessee, convicting a blind black man of murder. Perhaps Ruckus' most famous quote was “I’d shot you myself, but I realized the white men got better aim". 
In 1961, he was part of the violent opposition to the Freedom Rides.

Tom Dubois
"You can't have my wife!"

Tom is portrayed as a loving family man, who is very close to his white wife and biracial daughter Jazmine. Tom's hobbies include singing and playing 
the piano, and he once dreamed of becoming a successful recording artist, though his wife and friends detest his singing. He also played basketball on 
his Ivy League college team, at Princeton University but, as Sarah points out, he was mostly a bench warmer. His most notable moment on the team was 
taking a charge from Chris Webber to defeat the University of Michigan and the Fab Five, but is known in infamy as the "Giddy Up, Ride 'Em Cowboy Dunk." 
His failures as a player along with the influence of The Mighty Ducks film leads him to coach a Woodcrest youth basketball team, though in two years 
they have failed to produce a win. He is depicted as somewhat of a goober and a wet blanket in social situations, since he seems unable to truly lighten up.
Tom, being non-confrontational and skittish by nature, adheres strictly to the law, particularly due to his irrational fear of being sent to prison and anally 
raped as explained in the episode "A Date With The Health Inspector".

Thugnificent
"You just mad at all this thugnificence"

Thugnificent, while kind and well-meaning, is loud, obnoxious, immature and blatantly rude for a man his age. He had made his success by being what can best 
called a "professional buffoon." As a rapper, Riley described him as a musical genius, only that he lacked the ability to read, write, or compose music. His 
songs, though popular when they came out, were limited to simple verses. When his popularity and career started to fail, it was his use of auto tune that sealed his doom.
As a rapper and the only resident of Terra-Belle to achieve success, Thugnificent saw himself as being like royalty. He flaunted his wealth and lifestyle, taking pride in 
the hate and envy he gained. Thugnificent was also a horrible influence on children, foremost among them Riley.